# Xbee-X2C-AT-Mode
This is an introduction to wireless Xbee communication and how to configure the Xbee 2C modules for AT mode. The Xbee is a brand of radio that supports A variety of communication protocols. The first part of the lab focuses on configuring the Xbees; setting the modules up to work on one network as well as creating a dedicated router and coordinator. Afterwards, the configured Xbees are used to communicate between Arduinos.

*This configuration was used for both the Coordinator and Router. TX1 and RX1 refer to the Arduino’s Serial1 line (as opposed to the serial communications opened when attached to a computer).

AT mode, also known as Transmission Mode, configures the Xbee 2C series for serial data transmission over the Zigbee standard protocol for low-powered, wireless mesh networking. To begin, each Xbee must be properly configured to communicate on the same PAN (Personal Area Network). For the CE Coordinator Enable menu, it must be enabled for the coordinator Xbee and disabled for the Xbee acting as the router. Transparent mode must also be selected for both Xbees to be configured in AT mode. Lastly, the destination address low option must be set as 0 for the router and FFFF as the coordinator.

Once the Xbee 2C’s are configured, serial communications with an external device can be opened. Two Arduino Megas were programmed to read serial data being received from the Xbees and print the data to the serial monitor. Initially, there was difficulty getting the router to communicate with the Mega. As it turned out, our router module was improperly grounded, which lead to the Xbee not being able to transmit properly. After fixing this issue, transmitting and receiving worked as it should. Both Arduinos were able to send and receive data.
